tandoor_recipes/README.md, before:

# Hass.io Add-ons: Tandoor recipes

[![Donate][donation-badge]](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/alexbelgium)
[![Donate][paypal-badge]](https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=DZFULJZTP3UQA)

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=Version&query=%24.version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Falexbelgium%2Fhassio-addons%2Fmaster%2Ftandoor_recipes%2Fconfig.json)
![Ingress](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=Ingress&query=%24.ingress&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Falexbelgium%2Fhassio-addons%2Fmaster%2Ftandoor_recipes%2Fconfig.json)
![Arch](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=success&label=Arch&query=%24.arch&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Falexbelgium%2Fhassio-addons%2Fmaster%2Ftandoor_recipes%2Fconfig.json)

[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9c6cf10bdbba45ecb202d7f579b5be0e)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=alexbelgium/hassio-addons&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![GitHub Super-Linter](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/weekly-supelinter.yaml?label=Lint%20code%20base)](https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/actions/workflows/weekly-supelinter.yaml)
[![Builder](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/onpush_builder.yaml?label=Builder)](https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/actions/workflows/onpush_builder.yaml)

[donation-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Buy%20me%20a%20coffee%20(no%20paypal)-%23d32f2f?logo=buy-me-a-coffee&style=flat&logoColor=white
[paypal-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Buy%20me%20a%20coffee%20with%20Paypal-0070BA?logo=paypal&style=flat&logoColor=white

_Thanks to everyone having starred my repo! To star it click on the image below, then it will be on top right. Thanks!_

[![Stargazers repo roster for @alexbelgium/hassio-addons](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/master/.github/stars2.svg)](https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/stargazers)

![downloads evolution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/master/tandoor_recipes/stats.png)

## About

[Tandoor recipes](https://github.com/TandoorRecipes/recipes), made by [vabene1111](https://github.com/vabene1111) is meant for people with a collection of recipes they want to share with family and friends or simply store them in a nicely organized way. A basic permission system exists but this application is not meant to be run as a public page.

## Configuration

Webui can be found at <http://homeassistant:PORT> or through the sidebar using Ingress.
Configurations can be done through the app webUI, except for the following options.

For Ingress support, see: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/ingress-access-for-tandoor-recipes/717859
Complete documentation: https://docs.tandoor.dev/install/docker/

### Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `SECRET_KEY` | str | `YOUR_SECRET_KEY` | **REQUIRED**: Django secret key for security |
| `ALLOWED_HOSTS` | str | | **REQUIRED**: Comma-separated Home Assistant URLs for ingress |
| `DB_TYPE` | list | `sqlite` | Database type (sqlite or postgresql_external) |
| `DEBUG` | list | `0` | Debug mode (0=normal, 1=debug) |
| `externalfiles_folder` | str | | Folder for external recipe file imports |
| `POSTGRES_HOST` | str | | PostgreSQL host (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_PORT` | str | | PostgreSQL port (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_USER` | str | | PostgreSQL username (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` | str | | PostgreSQL password (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_DB` | str | | PostgreSQL database name (required for postgresql_external) |

### Example Configuration

```yaml
SECRET_KEY: "your-very-long-secret-key-here"
ALLOWED_HOSTS: "homeassistant.local,192.168.1.100"
DB_TYPE: "sqlite"
DEBUG: "0"
externalfiles_folder: "/config/addons_config/tandoor_recipes/externalfiles"
# For external PostgreSQL:
# POSTGRES_HOST: "core-postgres"
# POSTGRES_PORT: "5432"
# POSTGRES_USER: "tandoor"
# POSTGRES_PASSWORD: "secure_password"
# POSTGRES_DB: "tandoor_recipes"
```

## Installation

The installation of this add-on is pretty straightforward and not different in
comparison to installing any other Hass.io add-on.

1. [Add my Hass.io add-ons repository][repository] to your Hass.io instance.
1. Install this add-on.
1. Click the `Save` button to store your configuration.
1. Start the add-on.
1. Check the logs of the add-on to see if everything went well.
1. Carefully configure the add-on to your preferences, see the official documentation for for that.

## Support

If you have in issue with your installation, please be sure to checkout github.

## Screenshot

![image](https://github.com/TandoorRecipes/recipes/raw/develop/docs/preview.png)

[repository]: https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons

## External Recipe files
The directory /config/addons_config/tandoor_recipes/externalfiles can be used for importing external files in to Tandoor. You can map this with /opt/recipes/externalfiles within Docker.
As per directions here: https://docs.tandoor.dev/features/external_recipes/

Commit message:

feat(tandoor): Support configuring LLMs

tandoor_recipes/README.md, after:

# Hass.io Add-ons: Tandoor recipes

[![Donate][donation-badge]](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/alexbelgium)
[![Donate][paypal-badge]](https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=DZFULJZTP3UQA)

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=Version&query=%24.version&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Falexbelgium%2Fhassio-addons%2Fmaster%2Ftandoor_recipes%2Fconfig.json)
![Ingress](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?label=Ingress&query=%24.ingress&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Falexbelgium%2Fhassio-addons%2Fmaster%2Ftandoor_recipes%2Fconfig.json)
![Arch](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json?color=success&label=Arch&query=%24.arch&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Falexbelgium%2Fhassio-addons%2Fmaster%2Ftandoor_recipes%2Fconfig.json)

[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9c6cf10bdbba45ecb202d7f579b5be0e)](https://www.codacy.com/gh/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=alexbelgium/hassio-addons&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![GitHub Super-Linter](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/weekly-supelinter.yaml?label=Lint%20code%20base)](https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/actions/workflows/weekly-supelinter.yaml)
[![Builder](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/onpush_builder.yaml?label=Builder)](https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/actions/workflows/onpush_builder.yaml)

[donation-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Buy%20me%20a%20coffee%20(no%20paypal)-%23d32f2f?logo=buy-me-a-coffee&style=flat&logoColor=white
[paypal-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Buy%20me%20a%20coffee%20with%20Paypal-0070BA?logo=paypal&style=flat&logoColor=white

_Thanks to everyone having starred my repo! To star it click on the image below, then it will be on top right. Thanks!_

[![Stargazers repo roster for @alexbelgium/hassio-addons](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/master/.github/stars2.svg)](https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/stargazers)

![downloads evolution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons/master/tandoor_recipes/stats.png)

## About

[Tandoor recipes](https://github.com/TandoorRecipes/recipes), made by [vabene1111](https://github.com/vabene1111) is meant for people with a collection of recipes they want to share with family and friends or simply store them in a nicely organized way. A basic permission system exists but this application is not meant to be run as a public page.

## Configuration

Webui can be found at <http://homeassistant:PORT> or through the sidebar using Ingress.
Configurations can be done through the app webUI, except for the following options.

For Ingress support, see: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/ingress-access-for-tandoor-recipes/717859
Complete documentation: https://docs.tandoor.dev/install/docker/

### Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `SECRET_KEY` | str | `YOUR_SECRET_KEY` | **REQUIRED**: Django secret key for security |
| `ALLOWED_HOSTS` | str | | **REQUIRED**: Comma-separated Home Assistant URLs for ingress |
| `DB_TYPE` | list | `sqlite` | Database type (sqlite or postgresql_external) |
| `DEBUG` | list | `0` | Debug mode (0=normal, 1=debug) |
| `externalfiles_folder` | str | | Folder for external recipe file imports |
| `POSTGRES_HOST` | str | | PostgreSQL host (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_PORT` | str | | PostgreSQL port (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_USER` | str | | PostgreSQL username (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` | str | | PostgreSQL password (required for postgresql_external) |
| `POSTGRES_DB` | str | | PostgreSQL database name (required for postgresql_external) |
| `AI_MODEL_NAME` | str | | Used for configuring LLMs, supported providers can be found [here](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/) |
| `AI_API_KEY` | str | | API key for accessing LLMs |
| `AI_RATELIMIT` | int | | Ratelimit for LLM access |

### Example Configuration

```yaml
SECRET_KEY: "your-very-long-secret-key-here"
ALLOWED_HOSTS: "homeassistant.local,192.168.1.100"
DB_TYPE: "sqlite"
DEBUG: "0"
externalfiles_folder: "/config/addons_config/tandoor_recipes/externalfiles"
# For external PostgreSQL:
# POSTGRES_HOST: "core-postgres"
# POSTGRES_PORT: "5432"
# POSTGRES_USER: "tandoor"
# POSTGRES_PASSWORD: "secure_password"
# POSTGRES_DB: "tandoor_recipes"
# AI_MODEL_NAME: "anthropic/claude-4"
# AI_API_KEY: "SECRET KEY"
```

## Installation

The installation of this add-on is pretty straightforward and not different in
comparison to installing any other Hass.io add-on.

1. [Add my Hass.io add-ons repository][repository] to your Hass.io instance.
1. Install this add-on.
1. Click the `Save` button to store your configuration.
1. Start the add-on.
1. Check the logs of the add-on to see if everything went well.
1. Carefully configure the add-on to your preferences, see the official documentation for for that.

## Support

If you have in issue with your installation, please be sure to checkout github.

## Screenshot

![image](https://github.com/TandoorRecipes/recipes/raw/develop/docs/preview.png)

[repository]: https://github.com/alexbelgium/hassio-addons

## External Recipe files
The directory /config/addons_config/tandoor_recipes/externalfiles can be used for importing external files in to Tandoor. You can map this with /opt/recipes/externalfiles within Docker.
As per directions here: https://docs.tandoor.dev/features/external_recipes/
